Price adjustments (#7756)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.3/extension-dev-guide/price-adjustments.md

---
group: php-developer-guide
title: Price Adjustments
contributor_name: Goivvy LLC
contributor_link: https://www.goivvy.com
---

> ## How Price Adjustments Work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Price Adjustments
```

Price Adjustments will adjust product price as it's displayed on category or product pages.  

> **In this article, as an example, we will add `1.79` to each product price.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The following example will add `1.79` to each product price.**
```

> To introduce new price adjustment one should add the following code to module's `etc/di.xml`:

Reviewer: Can you also add here VENDOR/MODULE/etc.di.xml

```xml
<type name="Magento\Framework\Pricing\Adjustment\Collection">
  <arguments>
    <argument name="adjustments" xsi:type="array">
      <item name="devadj" xsi:type="const">VENDOR\MODULE\Pricing\Adjustment::ADJUSTMENT_CODE</item>
    </argument>
  </arguments>
</type>
<type name="Magento\Framework\Pricing\Adjustment\Pool">
  <arguments>
     <argument name="adjustments" xsi:type="array">
        <item name="devadj" xsi:type="array">
           <item name="className" xsi:type="string">VENDOR\MODULE\Pricing\Adjustment</item>
           <item name="sortOrder" xsi:type="string">10</item>
        </item>
     </argument>
  </arguments>
</type>
```

Then `VENDOR/MODULE/Pricing/Adjustment.php` file should look like this:

```php
namespace VENDOR\MODULE\Pricing;

use Magento\Framework\Pricing\Adjustment\AdjustmentInterface;
use Magento\Framework\Pricing\SaleableInterface;

class Adjustment implements AdjustmentInterface
{

>     const ADJUSTMENT_CODE = 'devadj';

Reviewer: Will be nice to have some explanation what is that

    const ADJUSTMENT_VALUE = 1.79;

    /**
     * Get adjustment code
     *
     * @return string
     */
    public function getAdjustmentCode()
    {
        return self::ADJUSTMENT_CODE;
    }

    /**
     * Define if adjustment is included in base price
     *
     * @return bool
     */
    public function isIncludedInBasePrice()
    {
        return true;
    }

    /**
     * Define if adjustment is included in display price
     *
     * @return bool
     */
    public function isIncludedInDisplayPrice()
    {
        return true;
    }

    /**
     * Extract adjustment amount from the given amount value
     *
     * @param float $amount
     * @param SaleableInterface $saleableItem
     * @param null|array $context
     * @return float
     */
    public function extractAdjustment($amount, SaleableInterface $saleableItem, $context = [])
    {

>         $return = $amount - self::ADJUSTMENT_VALUE;

Reviewer 2: I would not recommend declaring the redundant `$return` variable if we don't need storing the data. Returning a result is enough in this case and the following cases.

```suggestion
        return $amount - self::ADJUSTMENT_VALUE;
```

From the interpreter perspective, the system needs to allocate separate memory space for the variable, then a separate space for the result of the function, then free up the space for the variable. We don't need half of the operations under the hood from the performance perspective.

It's not a big deal since it's just an example. But my intention is to show the best practices in the DevDocs examples. 

Thank you

    }

    /**
     * Apply adjustment amount and return result value
     *
     * @param float $amount
     * @param SaleableInterface $saleableItem
     * @param null|array $context
     * @return float
     */
    public function applyAdjustment($amount, SaleableInterface $saleableItem, $context = [])
    {
        $return = $amount + self::ADJUSTMENT_VALUE;
        return $return;
    }

    /**
     * Check if adjustment should be excluded from calculations along with the given adjustment
     *
     * @param string $adjustmentCode
     * @return bool
     */
    public function isExcludedWith($adjustmentCode)
    {
        return $this->getAdjustmentCode() === $adjustmentCode;
    }

    /**
     * Return sort order position
     *
     * @return int
     */
    public function getSortOrder()
    {
        return 21;
    }
}
```

Adjustment logic is defined in `extractAdjustment` and `applyAdjustment` functions.

## What Areas Price Adjustments Affect

Price Adjustments affect storefront product prices. 

Price Adjustments **will not** affect quote item prices so when a product is added to the cart any price adjustments defined the way described above are discarded.

> ## Correct Way To Do Price Adjustments for Quote Items

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add Price Adjustments for Quote Items
```

> The correct way to do price adjustments for quote items is to add a custom quote total.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For add price adjustments for quote items, a custom quote total have to be added
```

Add the following to `VENDOR/MODULE/etc/sales.xml`:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Sales:etc/sales.xsd">
    <section name="quote">
        <group name="totals">
            <item name="custom-surcharge" instance="VENDOR\MODULE\Model\Quote\Surcharge" sort_order="1000"/>
        </group>
    </section>
</config>
```

Then `VENDOR/MODULE/Model/Quote/Surcharge.php`:

```php
namespace VENDOR\MODULE\Model\Quote;

class Surcharge extends \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total\AbstractTotal
{

>    const COLLECTOR_TYPE_CODE = 'custom-surcharge';

Reviewer: World be nice to write some info where this used and for what

   /**
    * Custom constructor.
    */
   public function __construct()
   {
       $this->setCode(self::COLLECTOR_TYPE_CODE);

> 

Reviewer 2: Please, remove the extra empty line here.

   }

   /**
    * Collect address discount amount
    *
    * @param \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote $quote
    * @param \Magento\Quote\Api\Data\ShippingAssignmentInterface $shippingAssignment
    * @param \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total $total
    * @return $this
    */
   public function collect(

>         \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote $quote,

Reviewer: Lets change those in more correct way by moving \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote into "use" section of the class.
Same everywhere

        \Magento\Quote\Api\Data\ShippingAssignmentInterface $shippingAssignment,
        \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total $total
   ) {
        parent::collect($quote, $shippingAssignment, $total);

        $items = $shippingAssignment->getItems();
        if (!count($items)) {
            return $this;
        }

        $amount = 0;
        foreach($quote->getItemsCollection() as $_i){

>             $amount += $_i->getQty() * \Goivvy\Review\Pricing\Adjustment::ADJUSTMENT_VALUE;

Reviewer: I assume class name is wrong here

        }

>         $total->setTotalAmount('custom-surcharge', $amount);

Reviewer: What about using same constant here?

>         $total->setBaseTotalAmount('custom-surcharge', $amount);

Reviewer: What about using same constant here?

        $total->setCustomAmount($amount);
        $total->setBaseCustomAmount($amount);
        $total->setGrandTotal($total->getGrandTotal() + $amount);
        $total->setBaseGrandTotal($total->getBaseGrandTotal() + $amount);
        return $this;
   }

  /**
    * @param \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total $total
    */

>    protected function clearValues(\Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total $total)

Reviewer: Same to move class into USE section

   {
       $total->setTotalAmount('subtotal', 0);
       $total->setBaseTotalAmount('subtotal', 0);
       $total->setTotalAmount('custom-surcharge', 0);
       $total->setBaseTotalAmount('custom-surcharge', 0);
       $total->setSubtotalInclTax(0);
       $total->setBaseSubtotalInclTax(0);
   }

   /**
    * @param \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote $quote
    * @param \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total $total
    * @return array
    */
   public function fetch(
       \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote $quote,
        \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total $total
   ) {

       $amount = 0;

>        foreach($quote->getItemsCollection() as $_i){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       foreach ($quote->getItemsCollection() as $_i) {
```

>             $amount += $_i->getQty() * \Goivvy\Review\Pricing\Adjustment::ADJUSTMENT_VALUE;

Reviewer: I assume class name is wrong here

       }

       return [
           'code' =>$this->getCode(),

>            'title' => 'Custom Total',

Reviewer: Add translation here

                            <item name="children" xsi:type="array">
                                <item name="custom-surcharge" xsi:type="array">
                                    <item name="component" xsi:type="string">VENDOR_MODULE/js/view/cart/totals/surcharge</item>
                                    <item name="config" xsi:type="array">
                                        <item name="title" xsi:type="string" translate="true">Custom Surcharge</item>
                                    </item>
                                </item>
                            </item>
                        </item>
                    </item>
                </argument>
            </arguments>
        </referenceBlock>
    </body>
</page>
```

Then we need to define a new component `VENDOR_MODULE/js/view/cart/totals/surcharge`:

`VENDOR/MODULE/view/frontend/web/js/view/cart/totals/surcharge.js`:

```javascript
define([
    'Magento_Checkout/js/view/summary/abstract-total',
    'Magento_Checkout/js/model/quote'
], function (Component, quote) {
    'use strict';
       
    return Component.extend({
        defaults: {

>             template: 'Goivvy_Review/summary/surcharge'

Reviewer: Class name

        },
        totals: quote.getTotals(),
   
        /**
         * @return {*|Boolean}
         */
        isDisplayed: function () {
            return this.isFullMode() && this.getPureValue() != 0;
        },
   
        /**
         * Get surcharge title
         *
         * @returns {null|String}
         */
        getTitle: function () {
            if (!this.totals()) { 
                return null;
            }

            return 'Custom Surcharge';
        }, 
           
        /**
         * @return {Number}
         */
        getPureValue: function () {
            var price = 0;

>             for(var i=0; i < window.checkoutConfig.quoteItemData.length; i++){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            for (var i=0; i < window.checkoutConfig.quoteItemData.length; i++) {
```

## Add Price Adjustments for Quote Items

For add price adjustments for quote items, a custom quote total have to be added

Add the following to `VENDOR/MODULE/etc/sales.xml`:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Sales:etc/sales.xsd">
    <section name="quote">
        <group name="totals">
            <item name="custom-surcharge" instance="VENDOR\MODULE\Model\Quote\Surcharge" sort_order="1000"/>
        </group>
    </section>
</config>
```

Then `VENDOR/MODULE/Model/Quote/Surcharge.php`:

```php
namespace VENDOR\MODULE\Model\Quote;

use Magento\Quote\Api\Data\ShippingAssignmentInterface;
use Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total;
use Magento\Quote\Model\Quote;

class Surcharge extends \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total\AbstractTotal
{

   const COLLECTOR_TYPE_CODE = 'custom-surcharge';

   /**
    * Custom constructor.
    */
   public function __construct()
   {
       $this->setCode(self::COLLECTOR_TYPE_CODE);
   }

   /**
    * Collect address discount amount
    *

>     * @param \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote $quote

Reviewer: as you already defined them in USE, you can also use here short names.

    * @param \Magento\Quote\Api\Data\ShippingAssignmentInterface $shippingAssignment
    * @param \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\Total $total
    * @return $this
    */
   public function collect(
        Quote $quote,
        ShippingAssignmentInterface $shippingAssignment,
        Total $total
   ) {
        parent::collect($quote, $shippingAssignment, $total);

        $items = $shippingAssignment->getItems();
        if (!count($items)) {
            return $this;
        }

        $amount = 0;

>         foreach($quote->getItemsCollection() as $_i){

Reviewer: Skipped first time. Can you please do not use $_i variable, but really use self-explanatory names
